Advice From An Old Programmer
*****************************

You've finished this book and now you have decided to continue on with
programming.  Maybe it will be a career for you, or maybe you'll just do it as
a hobby.  For whatever reason you'll need some advice to make sure you continue
on the right path and get the most enjoyment out of your newly chosen hobby.

I have been programming for a very long time.  So long that it is incredibly
boring to me.  At the time that I wrote this book I knew about 20 programming
languages and could learn new ones in about a day to a week depending on how
weird they were.  Eventually though this just became boring and couldn't hold
my interest.

What I discovered after this journey of learning was that the languages didn't
matter, it was what you did with them.  Actually, I always knew that, but I'd
get distracted by the languages and forget it periodically.  Now I never forget
it, and neither should you.

The programming language you learn and use does not matter.  Do *not* get
sucked into the religion surrounding programing languages as that will only
blind you to their true purpose of being your tool for doing interesting
things.

Programming as an intellectual activity is the *only* art form that allows you
to create interactive art.  You can create projects that other people can play
with and you can talk to them indirectly.  No other art form is quite this
interactive.  Movies flow to the audience in one direction.  Paintings don't
move.  Code goes both ways.

Programming as a profession is only moderately interesting.  It can be a good
job, but if you want to make about the same money and be happier you could
actually just go run a fast food joint.  You are much better off using code as
your secret weapon in another profession.

People who can code in the world of technology companies are a dime a dozen and
get no respect.  People who can code in biology, medicine, government,
sociology, physics, history, and mathematics are respected and can do amazing
things to advance those disciplines.

Of course, all of this advice is pointless.  If you liked learning to write
software with this book then you should try to use it to improve your life
anyway you can.  You should go out and explore this weird wonderful new
intellectual pursuit that barely anyone in the last 50 years has been able to
explore.  Might as well enjoy it while you can.

Finally, I will say that learning to create software changes you and makes you
different.  Not better or worse, just different.  You may find that people
treat you harshly because you can create software, maybe using words like
"nerd".  Maybe you'll find that because you can dissect their logic that they
hate arguing with you.  You may even find that simply knowing how a computer
works makes you annoying and weird to them.

To this I only have one piece of advice: they can go to hell.  The world needs
more weird people who know how things work and who love to figure it all out.
When they treat you like this, just remember that this is *your* journey, not
theirs.  Being different is not a crime, and people who tell you it is are
just jealous that you've picked up a skill they never in their wildest dreams
could acquire.

You can code. They cannot.  That is pretty damn cool.


