Exercise 13: Parameters, Unpacking, Variables
*********************************************

We're slowly building up your first few input operations, so we want to
cover one more input method you can use to pass variables to a script
(script being another name for your ``.py`` files).  You know how you
type ``python ex13.py`` to run the ``ex13.py`` file?  Well the ``ex13.py``
part of the command is called an "argument".  What we'll
do now is write a script that also accepts arguments.

Go ahead and type this program and then I'll explain it in detail:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex13.py
    :linenos:

On line 1 we have what's called an "import".  This is how you add
features to your script from the Python feature set.  Rather than
give you all the features at once, Python asks you to say what 
you plan to use.  This keeps your programs small, but it also acts
as documentation for other programmers who read your code later.

The ``argv`` is the "argument variable" and it's actually a very standard name
in programming.  You will find it used in many other languages.  What this
variable does is *hold* the arguments you pass to your Python script when you
run it.  In the exercises you will get to play with this more and see what
happens.

Line 3 "unpacks" ``argv`` so that, rather than holding all the arguments, it
gets assigned to four variables you can work with: ``script``, ``first``,
``second``, and ``third``.  This may look strange, but "unpack" is probably the
best word to describe what it does.  It just says, "Take whatever is in argv,
unpack it, and assign it to all of these variables on the left in order."

After that we just print them out like normal.

Hold Up! Features Have Another Name
===================================

I call them features here, these little things you ``import`` to make
your Python program do more.  Nobody else calls them features, I just 
used that name because I needed to trick you into learning what they
are without jargon.  But, before you can continue, you need to learn
their real name:  ``modules``.

We'll be calling these "features" that we ``import`` modules from now on.
I'll say things like, "You want to import the ``sys`` module."  They are
also called "libraries" by other programmers, but let's just stick to 
modules.


What You Should See
===================

When you run the
program run it like this:

.. code-block:: console

    python ex13.py first 2nd 3rd

This is what you should see when you do a few different runs
with different arguments:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex13.txt

You can actually replace "first", "2nd", and "3rd" with any three things.

If you do not run it correctly, then you will get an error like this:

.. code-block:: console

    python ex13.py first 2nd
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "ex/ex13.py", line 3, in <module>
        script, first, second, third = argv
    ValueError: need more than 3 values to unpack

This happens because you didn't put enough arguments on the command when you
ran it (in this case just ``first 2nd``).  Notice when I run it I gave it
``first 2nd 3rd``, which caused it to give an error about "need more than 3
values to unpack" telling you that you didn't give it enough parameters.

You do not have to give these parameters either, you can give any 3 strings
you want:


.. code-block:: console

    python ex13.py stuff I like
    python ex13.py anything 6 7


Extra Credit
============

1. Try giving less than three arguments to your script.  See that error 
   you get?  See if you can explain it.
2. Write a script that has less arguments and one that has more.  Make
   sure you give the unpacked variables good names.
3. Combine ``raw_input`` with ``argv`` to make a script that does more
   input from a user.
4. Remember that modules give you features.  Modules.  Modules.  Remember this
   because we'll need it later.
