Exercise 17: More Files
***********************

Now let's do a few more things with files.  We're going to actually write a 
Python script to copy one file to another.  It'll be very short but will give
you some ideas about other things you can do with files.

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex17.py
    :linenos:

You should immediately notice that we ``import`` another handy command
named ``exists``.  This returns ``True`` if a file exists, based on its
name in a string as an argument.  It returns ``False`` if not.  We'll be using
this function in the second half of this book to do lots of things, but
right now you should see how you can import it.

Using ``import`` is a way to get tons of free code other better (well, usually)
programmers have written so you do not have to write it.


What You Should See
===================

Just like your other scripts, run this one with two arguments, the file to copy
from and the file to copy it to.  If we use your ``test.txt`` file from before
we get this:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex17.txt
    :language: console

It should work with any file.  Try a bunch more and see what happens.  Just
be careful you do not blast an important file.

.. warning::

    Did you see that trick I did with ``cat``? It only works on Linux or OSX,
    on Windows use ``type`` to do the same thing.


Extra Credit
============

1. Go read up on Python's ``import`` statement, and start ``python`` to try
   it out.  Try importing some things and see if you can get it right.  It's 
   alright if you do not.
2. This script is *really* annoying.  There's no need to ask you before 
   doing the copy, and it prints too much out to the screen.  Try to make it
   more friendly to use by removing features.
3. See how short you can make the script.  I could make this 1 line long.
4. Notice at the end of the WYSS I used something called `cat`?  It's an old
   command that "con*cat*enates" files together, but mostly it's just an
   easy way to print a file to the screen.  Type ``man cat`` to read about it.
5. Windows people, find the alternative to ``cat`` that Linux/OSX
   people have.  Do not worry about ``man`` since there is nothing like that.
6. Find out why you had to do ``output.close()`` in the code.
