Exercise 22:  What Do You Know So Far?
**************************************

There won't be any code in this exercise or the next one, so there's no WYSS or Extra Credit
either.  In fact, this exercise is like one giant Extra Credit.  I'm going to have you do a
form of review on what you should know so far in order to help lock in what you have learned
so far.

First, you should go back through every exercise you have done so far and write down 
every word and symbol (another name for 'character') that you have used.  Make sure your
list of symbols is complete and you do not miss any.


Next to each word or symbol you should write its name, and what it does.  If you can't
find a name for a symbol in this book, then look online for it.  If you do not know what
something does, go read about it again and try using it again in some code.  Make sure
you know.

You may run into a few things you just can't find out or know, so just keep those on
the list and be ready to look them up when you find them.

Once you have your list, spend a few days rewriting the list and double checking that 
it's correct.  This may get boring but push through and really nail it down.

If you think you have memorized the list and what they do, then you should step it up
and do this:

1. Take a blank sheet of paper and try to write down as many symbols and words as you
   can from memory.
2. Compare what you could recall from memory to what was listed on your sheet, fill in
   the rest.
3. Write down the names from memory of all the symbols you can.
3. Again go look at your list and compare them, correcting any and filling in the remaining
   ones you didn't remember.
4. Finally do the same for what each symbol does:  write them from memory and then fill in
   the ones you do not remember or get wrong using your sheet.


.. warning::

    The most important thing when doing this exercise is: "There is no failure, only trying."


What You are Learning
====================

It's important when you are doing a boring mindless memorization exercise like this that
you know why.  It helps you focus on a goal and know the purpose of all your efforts.

In this exercise you are learning a vocabulary.  You are learning the names of symbols so
that you can read source code more easily than if you didn't know them.  It's similar 
to learning the alphabet, except the alphabet has extra symbols you might not know.

The technique you are also learning will help you memorize things.  A good trick is to
try to recall what you can from memory, and then fill in the rest of the ones you do not
know to then memorize again.  Doing it this way you develop memory skills that do not
require you to have a "trigger" to remember what something is and makes it a more natural
piece of knowledge.

Finally, just take it slow and do not hurt your brain.  Hopefully by now these symbols are
natural for you so this isn't a big effort.  It's best to take 15 minutes at a time with
your list and then take a break.  Giving your brain a rest will help you learn it faster
with less frustration.

