Exercise 23: Read Some Code
***************************

You should have spent last week getting your list of symbols straight
and get them locked into your mind.  Now you get to apply this to another
week reading code on the internet.  This exercise will be daunting at first.
I'm going to throw you in the deep end for a few days and have you just try
your best to read and understand some source code from real projects.  The
goal isn't to get you to understand code, but to teach you the following
three skills:


1. Finding Python source code for things you need.
2. Reading through the code and looking for files.
3. Trying to understand code you find.

At your level you really do not have the skills to evaluate the things
you find, but you can benefit from getting exposure to it and seeing how
things look.

When you do this exercise, think of yourself as an anthropologist, trucking
through a new land with just barely enough of the local language to get around
and see survive.  Except, of course, that you will actually get out alive because
the internet isn't a jungle.  Anyway.

Here's what you do:

1.  Go to bitbucket.org and search for "python".
2.  Avoid any project with "Python 3" mentioned.  That'll only confuse you.
3.  Take a random project you find, and click on it.
4.  Click on the ``Source`` tab and browse through the list of files and
    directories until you find a .py file (but not setup.py, that's useless).
5.  Start at the top, and read through it, taking notes on what you think it
    does.
6.  If any symbols or strange words seem to interest you, write them down to
    research later.

That's it.  Your job is to use what you know so far to see if you can read
the code and get a grasp of what it does.  You should try to do it first by
skimming, and then by reading in detail anything you find.  Maybe also try
taking very difficult parts and reading each symbol you know outloud.

You should then try several three other sites:

* github.com
* launchpad.net
* koders.com

On each of these sites you may find weird files ending in ``.c`` so stick to
``.py`` files like the ones you have written in this book.

A final fun thing to do is use the above four sources of Python code and 
type in topics you are interested in instead of "python".  Search for "journalism",
"cooking", "physics", or anything you are curious about.  Chances are there's
some code out there that someone wrote you could use right away.


