Exercise 25: Even More Practice
*******************************

We're going to do some more practice involving functions and variables
to make sure you know them well.  This exercise should be straight forward
for you to type in and you should be able to break it down and understand
it.

However, this exercise is a little different.  You won't be running it, but
instead *you* will import it into your python and run the functions yourself.

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex25.py
    :linenos:

First thing you should do is run this like normal with ``python ex25.py`` to
find any errors you have made.  Once you have found all of the errors you can
this way and fixed them, you will then want to follow the WYSS section to
complete the exercise.


What You Should See
===================

In this exercise we're going to interact with your ``.py`` file inside
the ``python`` interpreter you used periodically to do calculations.

Here's what it looks like when I do it:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex25.txt
    :linenos:
    :language: pycon

Let's break this down line by line to make sure you know what's going 
on:

* Line 5 you import *your* ``ex25.py`` python file, just other imports you have done.  Notice you do not need to put the ``.py`` at the end to import it.  When you do this you make a ``module`` that has all your functions in it to use.
* Line 6 you made a ``sentence`` to work with.
* Line 7 you use the ``ex25`` module and call your first function ``ex25.break_words``.  The ``.`` (dot, period) symbol is how you tell python, "Hey, inside ``ex25`` there's a function called ``break_words`` and I want to run it."
* line 8 we just type ``words`` and python will print out what's in that variable (line 9).  It looks weird but this is a ``list``, you will learn about that later.
* Lines 10-11 we do the same thing with ``ex25.sort_words`` to get a sorted sentence.
* Lines 13-16 we use ``ex25.print_first_word`` and ``ex25.print_last_word`` to get the first and last word printed out.
* Line 17 is interesting.  I made a mistake and typed the ``words`` variable as ``wrods`` so python gave me an error on Lines 18-20.
* Line 21-22 is where we print the modified words list, notice that since we printed the first and last one those words are now missing.

The remaining lines are for you to figure out and analyze in the extra credit.


Extra Credit
============

1. Take the remaining lines of the WYSS output and figure out what they are doing.
   Make sure you understand how you are running your functions in the ``ex25``
   module.
2. Try doing this:  ``help(ex25)`` and also ``help(ex25.break_words)``.  Notice how
   you get help for your module, and also notice how the help is those odd ``"""``
   strings you put after each function in ex25?  Those special strings are called
   documentation comments and we'll be seeing more of them.
3. Type ``ex25.`` is annoying, so a shortcut is do your import like 
   this:  ``from ex25 import *`` which is like saying, "Import everything
   from ex25."  Programmers like saying things backwards.  Start a new 
   session and see how all your functions are right there now.
4. Try breaking your file and see what it looks like in ``python`` when you use it.
   You will have to quit python with CTRL-D (CTRL-Z on windows) to be able to reload it.


