Exercise 26: Congratulations, Take A Test!
******************************************

You are almost done with the first half of the book.  The second half will
start teaching you logic where things become more interesting and you'll
start to be able to do useful things.

Before you continue though, I have a quiz for you.  This quiz will be *very*
hard because it requires you to fix someone else's code.  When you're a programmer
you have to deal with other programmer's code, and also with their arrogance.
They will very frequently claim that their code is perfect.  Despite all
of the obvious flaws in what they've written, it couldn't possibly be anything
they've written.


These programmers are stupid people who care little for others.  A good
programmer assumes, like a good scientist, that there's always *some*
probability their code is wrong.  Good programmers start from the premise that
their software is broken and then work to rule out all possible ways it could
be wrong before finally admitting that maybe it really is the other guy's code.

In this exercise, you will practice dealing with a bad programmer by fixing
a bad programmer's code.  I have poorly copied exercises 24 and 25 into a
file and then removed random characters and added flaws.  Most of the errors
are things Python will tell you, some of them are math errors you should find.
Others are formatting errors or spelling mistakes in the strings.

All of them are very common errors programmers make.  Even experienced ones.

Your job in this exercise is to correct this file.  Use all of your skills
to make this file better.  Analyze it first, maybe printing it out to edit 
it like you would a school term paper.  Fix each flaw and keep running it
and fixing it until you can.  Try not to get help, and instead if you get
stuck take a break and come back to it later.

Even if this takes days to do, bust through it and make it right.

Finally, the point of this exercise isn't to type it in, but to fix
an existing file.  To do that, you must go to:

* http://learnpythonthehardway.com/wiki/Exercise26

With your web browser, and copy-paste the code into a file to work on
name ``ex26.py``. 



