Exercise 27: Memorizing Logic 
*****************************

Today is the day you start learning about logic.  Up to this point you have done 
everything you possibly can reading and writing files, to the terminal, and have
learned quite a lot of the math capabilities of Python.

From now on though, you will be learning about logic, but just enough logic to
be dangerous.  You won't learn complex theories that academics love to study,
but instead just the simple basic logic that makes real programs work and that
real programmers need every day.

However, learning logic has to come after you do some memorization.  I want you
to do this exercise for an entire week.  Do not faulter.  Even if you are bored
out of your mind, keep doing it.  This exercise has a set of logic tables you
must memorize to make it easier for you to do the later exercises.

I'm warning you this won't be fun at first.  It will be downright boring and tedious
but this is to teach you a very important skill you'll need as a programmer.  You
*will* need to be able to memorize important concepts as you go in your life.
Most of these concepts will be exciting once you get them.  You'll struggle with
them, like wrestling a squid, then one day *snap* you'll understand it.  All
that work memorizing the basics pays off big later.

Here's a tip on how to memorize something without going insane:  Do it a little
tiny bit at a time throughout the day and mark down what you need to work on most.
Don't try to sit down for 2 hours straight and memorize these tables as that won't
work.  Your brain will really only retain whatever you studied in the first
15 or 30 minutes anyway.
   
Instead, what you should do is create a bunch of index cards with each column
on the left on one side (True or False) and the column on the right on the back.
You should then pull them out, see the "True or False" and be able to immediately
say "True!"  Keep practicing until you can do this.

Once you can do that, start writing out your own truth tables each night into
a notebook.  Don't just copy them, but instead try to do them from memory, and
when you get stuck glance quickly at the ones I have here to refresh your 
memory.  Doing this will train your brain to remember the whole table.

Don't spend more than one week on this, because you'll be applying it
as you go.  You might want to keep your index cards as a "warm up" before
you sit down to do further exercises though.


The Truth Terms
===============

In python we have the following terms (characters and phrases) for determining
is something is "True" or "False".  Logic on a computer is all about
determining if some combination of these characters and some variables is True
at that point in the program.

* ``and``
* ``or``
* ``not``
* ``!=`` (not equal)
* ``==`` (equal)
* ``>=`` (greater-than-equal)
* ``<=`` (less-than-equal)
* True
* False

You actually have ran into these characters before, but maybe not the phrases.
The phrases (and, or, not) actually work the way you expect them to, just like
in English.


The Truth Tables
================

We will now use these characters to make the truth tables you need to memorize.


========= =====
   NOT    True?
========= =====
not False True
--------- -----
not True  False
========= =====


============== =====
    OR         True?
============== =====
True or False  True
-------------- -----
True or True   True
-------------- -----
False or True  True
-------------- -----
False or False False
============== =====


=============== =====
    AND         True?
=============== =====
True and False  False
--------------- -----
True and True   True
--------------- -----
False and True  False
--------------- -----
False and False False
=============== =====



==================== =====
     NOT OR          True?
==================== =====
not (True or False)  False
-------------------- -----
not (True or True)   False
-------------------- -----
not (False or True)  False
-------------------- -----
not (False or False) True
==================== =====


===================== =====
    NOT AND           True?
===================== =====
not (True and False)  True
--------------------- -----
not (True and True)   False
--------------------- -----
not (False and True)  True
--------------------- -----
not (False and False) True
===================== =====


=============== =====
     !=         True?
=============== =====
1 != 0          True
--------------- -----
1 != 1          False
--------------- -----
0 != 1          True
--------------- -----
0 != 0          False
=============== =====


=============== =====
     ==         True?
=============== =====
1 == 0          False
--------------- -----
1 == 1          True
--------------- -----
0 == 1          False
--------------- -----
0 == 0          True
=============== =====


Now use these tables to write up your own cards and spend the week memorizing them.

