Exercise 36: Designing and Debugging
************************************

I'm going to give you some rules now that you know ``if-statements``,
``for-loops``, and ``while-loops`` that will keep you out of trouble.  I'm
also going to give you some tips on debugging so that you can figure out
problems with your program.  Finally, you are going to design a similar
little game as in the last exercise but with a slight twist.


Rules For If-Statements
=======================

1. Every ``if-statement`` must have an ``else``.
2. If this ``else`` should never be run, because it doesn't
   make sense, then you must use a ``die`` function in the ``else`` that
   prints out an error message and dies, just like we did in
   the last exercise.  This will find *many* errors.
3. Never nest ``if-statements`` more than 2 deep and always try
   to do them 1 deep.  This means if you put an ``if`` in an ``if`` 
   then you should be looking to move that second ``if`` into
   another function.
4. Treat ``if-statements`` like paragraphs, where each ``if,elif,else``
   grouping is like a set of sentences.  Put blank lines before and
   after them.
5. Your boolean tests should be simple.  If they are complex, move 
   their calculations to variables earlier in your function and use
   a good name for the variable.

If you follow these simple rules you will start writing better code than
most programmers currently coding.  Go back to the last exercise and
see if I followed all of these rules.  If not, fix it.

.. warning::

    Never be a slave to the rules in real life.  For training purposes
    you need to follow these rules to make your mind strong, but in 
    real life sometimes these rules are just stupid.  If you think a 
    rule is stupid, then try not using it.
    


Rules For Loops
===============

1. Use a ``while-loop`` only to loop forever, and that means probably
   never.  This only applies to Python, other languages are different.
2. Use a ``for-loop`` for all other kinds of looping, especially if
   there is a fixed or limited number of things to loop over.


Tips For Debugging
==================

1. Do not use a "debugger".  A debugger is like doing a full-body
   scan on a sick person.  You do not get any specific useful information,
   and you find a whole lot of information that doesn't help and is just
   confusing.
2. The best way to debug a program is to use ``print`` to print
   out the values of variables at points in the program to see
   where they go wrong.
3. Make sure parts of your programs work as you work on them.  Do 
   not write massive files of code and then run them at the very end.
   Code a little, run a little, fix a little.


Homework
========

You should now write a similar game to the one that I created
in the last exercise.  It can be any kind of game you want in the
same flavor, and you should spend a week on it making it as 
interesting as you can.  For extra credit, you should use lists,
functions, and modules (remember those from Ex. 13?) as much as possible,
and find as many new pieces of Python as you can to make the game work.

There is one catch though, you should write up your idea for
the game first.  Before you start coding you must write up
a map for your game.  Create the rooms, the monsters, and
the traps that the player must go through on paper before you
code.

Once you have your map, then you should try to code it up.  If
you find problems with the map then adjust it and make the
code match.

One final word of advice:  Every programmer becomes paralyzed
by irrational fear at starting out on a new large project.
They then use procrastination to avoid confronting this fear
and end up not getting their program working or even started.
I do this.  Everyone does this.  The best way to get rid of 
this is to make a list of things you should do, and then do
them one at a time, bit by bit.

Just start doing it, do a small version, make it bigger, 
keep a list of things to do, and do them.

