Exercise 37: Symbol Review
**************************

It's time to review the symbols and Python words you know and to try
to pick up a few more for the next few lessons.  What I've done here
is written out all the Python symbols and keywords that are important
to know.

In this lesson you are to take each keyword, and first try to write out 
what it does from memory.  Next, go search online for it and see what
it really does.  It may be hard because some of these are going to
be impossible to search for, but keep trying.

If you got one of these wrong from memory, then write up an index card
with the correct definition and try to "correct" your memory.  If you
just didn't know about it then write down what it is and save it for
later.

Finally, use each of these in a small Python program, or as many as
you can get done.  The key here is to find out what the symbol does,
make sure you got it right, correct it if you don't, then use it
to lock it in.


Keywords
========

* ``and``
* ``del``
* ``from``
* ``not``
* ``while``
* ``as``
* ``elif``
* ``global``
* ``or``
* ``with``
* ``assert``
* ``else``
* ``if``
* ``pass``
* ``yield``
* ``break``
* ``except``
* ``import``
* ``print``
* ``class``
* ``exec``
* ``in``
* ``raise``
* ``continue``
* ``finally``
* ``is``
* ``return``
* ``def``
* ``for``
* ``lambda``
* ``try``


Data Types
==========

For data types, write out what makes up each one.  For example, with strings
write out how you create a string.  For numbers write out a few numbers.

* ``True``
* ``False``
* ``None``
* ``strings``
* ``numbers``
* ``floats``
* ``lists``


String Escapes Sequences
========================

For string escape sequences, use them in strings to make sure they do
what you think they do.

* ``\\``
* ``\'``
* ``\"``
* ``\a``
* ``\b``
* ``\f``
* ``\n``
* ``\r``
* ``\t``
* ``\v``

String Formats
==============

Same thing for string formats, use them in some strings to know what
they do.


* ``%d``
* ``%i``
* ``%o``
* ``%u``
* ``%x``
* ``%X``
* ``%e``
* ``%E``
* ``%f``
* ``%F``
* ``%g``
* ``%G``
* ``%c``
* ``%r``
* ``%s``
* ``%%``


Operators
=========

Some of these may be unfamiliar to you, but look them up anyway.  Find
out what they do, and if you still can't figure out what it does, 
save it for later.

* ``+``
* ``-``
* ``*``
* ``**``
* ``/``
* ``//``
* ``%``
* ``<``
* ``>``
* ``<=``
* ``>=``
* ``==``
* ``!=``
* ``<>``
* ``( )``
* ``[ ]``
* ``{ }``
* ``@``
* ``,``
* ``:``
* ``.``
* ``=``
* ``;``
* ``+=``
* ``-=``
* ``*=``
* ``/=``
* ``//=``
* ``%=``
* ``**=``


You should spend about a week on this, but if you finish it faster
that's great.  The point though is to try to get coverage on all
these symbols and make sure they're locked in your head.  What's also
important is to find out what you *don't* know so you can fix it
later.


