Exercise: Dictionaries, Oh Lovely Dictionaries
**********************************************

Well, I now have to hurt you with another container you can use, because once
you learn this container a massive world of ultra-cool will be yours.  It is
the most useful container ever:  the dictionary.

Python calls them "dicts", other languages call them, "hashes".  I tend to use
both names, but it doesn't matter, what does matter is what they do when compared
to lists.  You see, a list lets you do this:

.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> things = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd']
    >>> print things[1]
    b
    >>> things[1] = 'z'
    >>> print things[1]
    z
    >>> print things
    ['a', 'z', 'c', 'd']
    >>> 

You can use numbers to "index" into a list, meaning you can use numbers to get 
find out what's in them.  You should know this by now, but what a ``dict``
does is let you use *anything* not just numbers.  Yes, a dict associates one thing
to another, no matter what it is.  Here take a look:


.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> stuff = {'name': 'Zed', 'age': 36, 'height': 6*12+2}
    >>> print stuff['name']
    Zed
    >>> print stuff['age']
    36
    >>> print stuff['height']
    74
    >>> stuff['city'] = "San Francisco"
    >>> print stuff['city']
    San Francisco
    >>> 

Take a close look at this and you'll see that instead of just numbers we're
using strings to say what we want from the ``stuff`` dictionary.  We can also 
put new things into the dictionary with strings.  It doesn't have to be strings
though, we can also do this:

.. code-block:: pycon
    >>> stuff[1] = "Wow"
    >>> stuff[2] = "Neato"
    >>> print stuff[1]
    Wow
    >>> print stuff[2]
    Neato
    >>> print stuff
    {'city': 'San Francisco', 2: 'Neato', 
        'name': 'Zed', 1: 'Wow', 'age': 36, 
        'height': 74}
    >>>

In this one I just used numbers.  I could use anything.  Well almost but just pretend
you can use anything for now.

Of course, a dictionary that you can only put things in is pretty stupid, so here's 
how you delete things, with the ``del`` keyword:

.. code-block:: pycon
    
    >>> del stuff['city']
    >>> del stuff[1]
    >>> del stuff[2]
    >>> stuff
    {'name': 'Zed', 'age': 36, 'height': 74}
    >>>

We'll now do an exercise that you *must* study very carefully.  I want you to type this
exercise in and try to understand what's going on.  It is a very interesting exercise
that will hopefully have a big light turn on in your head very soon.


.. literalinclude:: ex/ex40.py
    :linenos:


What You Should See
===================

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex40.txt



Extra Credit
============

1. Go find the Python documentation for dictionaries (a.k.a. dicts, dict) and try to do
   even more things to them.
2. Find out what you *can't* do with dictionaries.  A big one is that they don't have order,
   so try playing with that.
3. Try doing a ``for-loop`` over them, and then try the ``items()`` function in a ``for-loop``.

