Exercise 52: The Start Of Your Web Game
***************************************

.. warning:: This is a DRAFT of the exercise for the 2nd Edition of the book.

We're coming to the end of the book, and in this exercise I'm going to
really challenge you.  When you're done with this exercise you'll be a reasonably
competent Python beginner.  You still will need to go through a few more
books and write a couple more projects, but you'll have the skills to complete them.
The only thing in your way will be time, motivation, and resources.

In this exercise, we won't make a complete game, but instead we'll make an
"engine" that can run the game from Exercise 42 in the browser.  This will
involve ``refactoring`` Exercise 42, mixing in the structure from Exercise 47,
adding automated tests, and finally creating a web engine that can run the
games.

This exercise will be *huge*, and I predict you could spend months on it or
just a week before you move on.  It's best to attack it in little chunks and
do a bit a night, taking your time to make everything work before moving on.


Refactoring The Exercise 42 Game
================================

You've been altering the ``gothonweb`` project for two exercises and you'll
do it one more time in this exercise.  The skill you're learning is called
"refactoring", or as I like to call it, "fixing stuff".  Refactoring is
a term programmers use to describe the process of taking old code, and changing
it to have new features or just to clean it up.  You've been doing this 
without even knowing it, as it's really just second nature to building software.

What you'll do in this part is take the ideas from Exercise 47 of a testable
"map" of Rooms, and the game from Exercise 42, and combine them together to
create a new game structure.  It will have the same content, just "refactored"
to have a better structure.

First step is to grab the code from ``ex47/game.py`` and just copy it to 
``gothonweb/map.py`` and copy ``tests/ex47_tests.py`` file to ``tests/map_tests.py``
and run ``nosetests`` again to make sure it keeps working.

.. note:: 

    From now on I won't show you the output of a test run, just assume that you should
    be doing it and it'll look like the above unless you have an error.


Once you have the code from Exercise 47 copied over, it's time to refactor it to
have the Exercise *42* map in it.  I'm going to start off by laying down the basic
structure, and then you'll have an assignment to make the ``map.py`` file and the
``map_tests.py`` file complete.

First thing to do is lay out the basic structure of the map using the ``Room`` class
as it is now:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex52/gothonweb/gothonweb/map.py
    :linenos:

You'll notice that there's a couple of problems with our ``Room`` class and this
map:

1. We have to put the text that was in the ``if-else`` clauses that got
   printed *before* entering a room as part of each room.  This means you can't
   shuffle the map around which would be nice.  You'll be fixing that up
   in this exercise.
2. There's parts in the original game where we ran code that determined
   things like the bomb's keypad code, or the right pod.  In this game
   we just pick some defaults and go with it, but later you'll be
   given extra credit to make this work again.
3. I've just made a ``generic_death`` ending for all of the bad decisions, which
   you'll have to finish for me.  You'll need to go back through and add in all
   the original endings and make sure they work.
4. I've got a new kind of transition labeled ``"*"`` that will be used for
   a "catch-all" action in the engine.

Once you've got that basically written out, here's the new automated test
``tests/map_test.py`` that you should have to get yourself started:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex52/gothonweb/tests/map_tests.py
    :linenos:

Your task in this part of the exercise is to complete the map, and make the
automated test completely validate the whole map.  This includes fixing all
the ``generic_death`` objects to be real endings.  Make sure this works
really well and that your test is as complete as possible because we'll be
changing this map later and you'll use the tests to make sure it keeps working.


Sessions And Tracking Users
===========================

At a certain point in your web application you'll need to keep track of some information
and associate it with the user's browser.  The web (because of HTTP) is what we like
to call "stateless", which means each request you make is independent of any other requests
being made.  If you request page A, put in some data, then click a link to page B, all
the data you sent to page A just disappears.

The solution to this is to create a little data store (usually in a database or on 
the disk) that uses a number unique to each browser to keep track of what that
browser was doing.  In the little ``lpthw.web`` framework it's fairly easy, and there's
an example showing how it's done:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex52/gothonweb/session_sample.py
    :linenos:

To make this work, you need to create a ``sessions/`` directory where the
application can put session storage.  Do that,  run this application and
go to ``/count``, you can hit refresh and watch the counter go up.  Close
the browser and it *forgets* who you are, which is what we want for the game.
There is a way to make the browser remember forever, but that makes testing
and development harder.  If you then go to ``/reset``, and back to ``/count``
you can see your counter reset because you've killed the session.

Take the time to understand this code so you can see how the session starts
off with the ``count`` equal to 0.  Also try looking at the files in 
``sessions/`` to see if you can open them up.  Here's a Python session where I
open up one and decode it:


.. code-block:: pycon

    >>> import pickle
    >>> import base64
    >>> base64.b64decode(open("sessions/XXXXX").read())
    "(dp1\nS'count'\np2\nI1\nsS'ip'\np3\nV127.0.0.1\np4\nsS'session_id'\np5\nS'XXXX'\np6\ns."
    >>> 
    >>> x = base64.b64decode(open("sessions/XXXXX").read())
    >>> 
    >>> pickle.loads(x)
    {'count': 1, 'ip': u'127.0.0.1', 'session_id': 'XXXXX'}

The sessions are really just dictionaries that get written to disk using ``pickle`` and 
``base64`` libraries.  There's probably as many ways to store and manage sessions as
there are web frameworks, so it's not too important to know how these work.  It does
help if you need to debug the session or potentially clean them out.


Creating An Engine
==================

You should have your game map working and a good unit test for it.  I now want
to make a simple little game engine that will run the rooms, collect input from
the player, and keep track of where a play is in the game.  We'll be using the
sessions you just learned about to make a simple game engine that will:

1. Start a new game for new users.
2. Present the room to the user.
3. Take input from the user.
4. Run their input through the game.
5. Display the results and keep going until they die.

To do this, you're going to take the trusty ``bin/app.py`` you've been hacking on
and create a fully working, session based, game engine.  The catch though, is I'm
going to make a very simple one with *basic HTML* files, and it'll be up to you to
complete it.   Here's the base engine:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex52/gothonweb/bin/app.py
    :linenos:

There are even more new things in this script, but amazingly it is an entire
web based game engine in a small file.  The biggest "hack" in the script are
the lines that bring the sessions back, which is needed so that debug mode
reloading works.  Otherwise, each time you hit refresh the sessions would
disappear and the game wouldn't work.


You should next delete ``templates/hello_form.html`` and ``templates/index.html`` and
create the two templates mentioned in the above code.  Here's a *very* simple 
``templates/show_room.html``:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex52/gothonweb/templates/show_room.html
    :linenos:

That is the template to show a room as you travel through the game, and next
you need one to tell someone they died in the case that they got to the end
of the map on accident, which is ``templates/you_died.html``:

.. literalinclude:: ex/ex52/gothonweb/templates/you_died.html
    :linenos:

With those in place, you should now be able to do the following:

1. Get the test ``tests/app_tests.py`` working again so that you are testing
   the game.  You won't be able to do much more than a few clicks in the 
   game because of sessions, but you should be able to do some basics.
2. Remove the ``sessions/*`` files and make sure you've started over.
3. Run the ``python bin/app.py`` script and test out the game.

You should be able to refresh and fix the game like normal, and work with 
the game HTML and engine until it does all the things you want it to do.


Your Final Exam
===============

Do you feel like this was a huge amount of information thrown at you all at once?
Good, I want you to have something to tinker with while you build your skills.
To complete this exercise, I'm going to give you a final set of exercises that
you are to complete on your own.  You'll notice that what you've written so far
isn't very well built, it is just a first version of the code.  Your task
is to now make the game more complete by doing these things:

1. Fix all the bugs I mention in the code, and any that I didn't mention.
   If you find new bugs then let me know.
2. Improve all of the automated tests so that you test more of the application
   and get to a point where you use a test rather than your browser to check
   the application while you work.
3. Make the HTML look better than it does right now.
4. Research logins and create a signup system for the application, so people
   can have logins and high scores.
5. Complete the game map, making it as large and feature complete as possible.
6. Give people a "help" system that let's them ask what they can do at each
   room in the game.
7. Add any other features you can think of to the game.
8. Create several "maps" and let people choose a game they want
   to run.  Your ``bin/app.py`` engine should be able to run any map of
   rooms you give it, so you can support multiple games.
9. Finally, use what you learned in Exercises 48 and 49 to create a better
   input processor. You have most of the code necessary, you just need to
   improve the grammar and hook it up to your input form and the ``GameEngine``.

Good luck!

